# Manchester Tech Meetup Data (CompiledMCR Data)
 
The MCR Tech Meetup Data repository provides a collection of data visualizations and insights into tech meetup events in Manchester, UK. Using the [Meetup API](https://www.meetup.com/meetup_api/) we have been able to gather raw data from the technology Meetup scene in Manchester. The purpose of curating this data is to assist the community by producing data analytics upon it, and also performing interesting data visualizations. Using tools like LeafletJS and various charting libraries, this project offers interactive visualizations that help users explore meetup trends, venue usage, attendee demographics, and more. This repository serves as a central hub for showcasing the diversity, frequency, and nature of tech meetups in Manchester through detailed charts, heatmaps, and visual data representations.

## Features

- Visualizations
- Event Pinned Locations
- Displays meetup event locations, highlights evend density through a heatmap using LeafletJS.
- Analyzes and maps events by sectors.
- Offers a temporal view of event locations over time.
- Illustrates RSVP trends per venue by month.
- Presents yearly meetup trends via a combination chart.
- Segregates events into online and in-person categories across sectors.
- Visualizes group and event RSVP distributions.
- Models relationships between sectors and attendees using a force-directed graph.
- Outputs include JSON and iCal files for calendar integration.

## Tech Stack

Codebase: HTML, CSS, JavaScript (LeafletJS, Google Charts, D3.js, ThreeJS, and whatever you need for your [Experiment](#Contributing))
Data Representation: JSON, D3.js
Hosting: GitHub Pages

## Running Locally

1. Prerequisites: Node.js (v14 or later), a modern browser.
1. Clone the repository: `bash` > `git clone https://github.com/inevitable-team/mcr-tech-meetup-data.git`. Install dependencies by running `npm install` 
1. Open the project in a code editor (Recommending [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) or IDE.
1. Serve the pages using a local HTTP server (Recommending [Live Server](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ritwickdey.LiveServer)) or using Python: `bash`>`python -m http.server`
1. Navigate to `http://localhost:5500` if using Live Server, or `http://localhost:8000` if using Python. If you've changed your ports, go there to view the project locally.

## Directory Structure
`_data/`: Stores processed event data. This will be updated from a private repository, and will be generated dynamically.
`_layouts/` and `_modules/`: Stores the html file generators.
`_public/`: Contains data visualizations.
`_scripts/`: Utility scripts for API interactions and data transformations.
`_static/`: Folder to make changes in most of the time. Here you'll create a folder which'll then be the url, and a handful of files as demonstrated in other folders.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read through:

If you wish to add to this project and visualize the data provided, you can do. Read through running locally section above, and follow the steps below to develop. Then create a Pull Request with an appropriate title.

1. Fork the repository and create a new branch for your feature or bug fix.

1. You can create a script to generate the refined data you require by adding to the [_scripts](_scripts) folder of this project. Once done, when the website is generated by running Node via `npm run start` your JSON file will be located in the `_site/data` folder.

    1. You shouldn't make any changes under the `_site` folder, as it'll be dynamically generated when it's being build after the merge, or every time you want to make changes to your scripts.

3. Create a folder of your own in the [_static/pages](_static/pages) directory, in here place all of your HTML/CSS/JS and when pulling in the data, use `../../data/` as the relative location to your generated data. If you wish to use all of the data generated by this project, you can use `../../_data/` as your relative location (loading `groups.json`, `events.json`, `attendees.json`, `categories.json`, `topics.json`, and `sectors.json`).

4. Once your page is in your new directory, add your project to [_pages.json](_pages.json), following the same format as the first item within the array. When this is done, you should be able to load the index file at the root of the _site folder and see your page under the "Experiments" section of the home page.

5. Open a pull request with an appropriate name and detailed description of your changes.
